VISUAL STUDIO

Microsoft Visual Studio is an integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft. It is used to develop computer programs for Microsoft Windows, as well as web sites, web applications and web services. 
Visual Studio uses Microsoft software development platforms such as Windows API, Windows Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Store and Microsoft Silverlight. 
It can produce both native code and managed code. The integrated debugger works both as a source-level debugger and a machine-level debugger. Other built-in tools include a forms designer for building GUI applications,
web designer, class designer, and database schema designer. Visual Studio supports different programming languages and allows the code editor and debugger to support (to varying degrees) nearly any programming language, 
provided a language-specific service exists. Built-in languages include C, C++ and C++/CLI (via Visual C++), VB.NET (via Visual Basic .NET), C# (via Visual C#), and F# (as of Visual Studio 2010[7]). 
Support for other languages such as M, Python, and Ruby among others is available via language services installed separately. It also supports XML/XSLT, HTML/XHTML, JavaScript and CSS.

ECLIPSE

Eclipse is an integrated development environment (IDE). It contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. Written mostly in Java, Eclipse can be used to develop applications. 
By means of various plug-ins, Eclipse may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages: Ada, ABAP, C, C++, COBOL, Fortran, Haskell, JavaScript, Lasso, Natural, Perl, PHP, Prolog, Python, R, 
Ruby (including Ruby on Rails framework), Scala, Clojure, Groovy, Scheme, and Erlang. It can also be used to develop packages for the software Mathematica. Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) 
for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for C/C++ and Eclipse PDT for PHP, among others.

ORACLE NETBEANS

NetBeans is an IDE for developing primarily with Java, but also with other languages, in particular PHP, C/C++, and HTML5. It is also an application platform framework for Java desktop applications and others.
The NetBeans IDE is written in Java and can run on Windows, OS X, Linux, Solaris and other platforms supporting a compatible JVM.

KOMODO 

Komodo edit is a free text editor for dynamic programming languages. It was introduced in January 2007 to complement Active State's commercial Komodo IDE. With the release of version 4.3, Komodo Edit is built on top of the Open Komodo project. 
Many of Komodo's features are derived from an embedded Python interpreter. Open Komodo uses Mozilla and Scintilla code base as they share many features and support the same languages (including Python, Perl, PHP, Ruby, Tcl, SQL, Smarty, CSS, HTML and XML) 
and computer platforms (Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows).